=head1 NAME

mrgingham - Extract chessboard corners from a set of images

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 $ mrgingham /tmp/image*.jpg

 # filename x y level
 /tmp/image1.jpg - -
 /tmp/image2.jpg 1385.433000 1471.719000 0
 /tmp/image2.jpg 1483.597000 1469.825000 0
 /tmp/image2.jpg 1582.086000 1467.561000 1
 ...


 $ mrgingham /tmp/image.jpg |
   vnl-filter -p x,y |
   feedgnuplot --domain --lines --points --image /tmp/image.jpg

 [ image pops up with the detected grid plotted on top ]


 $ mrgingham /tmp/image.jpg |
   vnl-filter -p x,y,level |
   feedgnuplot --domain
               --with 'linespoints pt 7 ps 2 palette'
               --tuplesizeall 3 --image /tmp/image.jpg

 [ fancy image pops up with the detected grid plotted on top, detections
   colored by their decimation level ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This tool uses the C<mrgingham> library to detect chessboard corners from images
stored on disk.

Both chessboard and a non-offset grid of circles are supported. Chessboard are
the I<strongly> preferred choice; the circle detector is mostly here for
compatibility. Both are nominally supported by OpenCV, but those implementations
are slow and not at all robust, in my experience. The implementations here are
much faster and work much better. I I<do> use OpenCV here, but only for some
core functionality.

Currently a 10x10 grid of points is hard-coded into the implementation. Talk to
Dima, if this is a problem for you.

=head2 Approach

This tool works in two passes:

=over

=item *

Look for "interesting" points in the image. The goal is to find all the points
we care about, in any order. It is assumed that

=over

=item *

there will be many outliers

=item *

there will be no outliers interspersed throughout the points we do care about
(this isn't an unreasonable requirement: areas between chessboard corners have a
solid color)

=back

=item *

Run a geometric analysis to find a grid in this set of "interesting" points.
This will throw out the outliers and it will order the output

=back

If we return I<any> data, that means we found a full grid. The geometric search
is fairly anal, so if we found a full grid, it's extremely likely that it is
"right".

=head3 Chessboards

This is based on the feature detector described in this paper:
L<https://arxiv.org/abs/1301.5491>

The authors provide a simple MIT-licensed implementation here:
L<http://www-sigproc.eng.cam.ac.uk/Main/SB476Chess>

This produces an image of detector response. I<This> library then aggregates
these responses by looking at local neighborhoods of high responses, and
computing the mean of the position of the points in each candidate neighborhood,
weighted by the detector response.

As noted earlier, I look for a hard-coded 10x10 grid. Here that means 10x10
I<internal corners>, meaning an 11x11 chessboard. A recommended pattern is
available in C<chessboard.pdf> in the C<mrgingham> sources.

=head3 Circles

B<This isn't recommended, and exists for legacy compatibility only*>

The circle finder does mostly what the first stage of the OpenCV circle detector
does:

=over

=item *

Find a reasonable intensity threshold

=item *

Threshold the image

=item *

Find blobs

=item *

Return centroid of the blobs

=back

This is relatively slow, can get confused by uneven lighting (although CLAHE can
take care of that), and is inaccurate: nothing says that the centroid of a blob
came from the center of the circle on the calibration board.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

The general usage is

 mrgingham [--debug] [--jobs N] [--noclahe] [--blur radius]
           [--level l] [--blobs] imageglobs imageglobs ...

By default we look for a chessboard. By default we apply adaptive histogram
equalization, then blur with a radius of 1. We then use an adaptive level of
downsampling when looking for the chessboard.

The arguments are

=over

=item C<--noclahe>

Optional argument to control image preprocessing. Unless given we will apply
adaptive histogram equalization (CLAHE algorithm) to the images. This is
I<extremely> helpful if the images aren't lit evenly; which is most of them.

=item C<--blur RADIUS>

Optional argument to control image preprocessing. This will apply a gaussian
blur to the image (after the histogram equalization). A light blurring is very
helpful with CLAHE, since that makes noisy images. By default we will blur with
radius = 1. Set to <= 0 to disable

=item C<--level L>

Optional argument to control image preprocessing. Applies a downsampling to the
image (after CLAHE and C<--blur>, if those are given). Level 0 means 'use the
original image'. Level > 0 means downsample by 2**level. Level < 0 means 'try
several different levels until we find one that works. This is the default.

=item C<--jobs N>

Parallelizes the processing N-ways. C<-j> is a synonym. This is just like GNU
make, except you're required to explicitly specify a job count.

The images are given as (multiple) globs. The output is a vnlog with columns
C<filename>,C<x>,C<y>. All filenames matched in the glob will appear in the
output. Images for which no chessboard pattern was found appear as a single
record with null C<x> and C<y>.

=item C<--debug>

If given, C<mrgingham> will dump various intermediate results into
C</tmp> and it will report more stuff on the console. The output is
self-documenting

=item C<--blobs>

Find circle centers instead of chessboard corners. Not recommended

=back

=head1 REPOSITORY

L<https://github.com/dkogan/mrgingham>

=head1 AUTHOR

Dima Kogan, C<< <dima@secretsauce.net> >>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

Copyright 2017-2018 California Institute of Technology

Copyright 2017-2018 Dima Kogan (C<dima@secretsauce.net>)

=cut
