=head1 NAME

mrgingham-observe-pixel-uncertainty - Evaluate observed point distribution from stationary observations

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  $ observe-pixel-uncertainty '*.png'
    Evaluated 49 observations
    mean 1-sigma for independent x,y: 0.26

  $ calibrate-cameras --observed-pixel-uncertainty 0.26 .....
  [ mrcal computes a camera calibration ]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<mrgingham> has finite precision, so repeated observations of the same board
will produce slightly different corner coordinates. This tool takes in a set of
images (assumed observing a chessboard, with both the camera and board
stationary). It then outputs the 1-standard-deviation statistic for the
distribution of detected corners. This can then be passed in to mrcal:
C<calibrate-cameras --observed-pixel-uncertainty ...>

The distribution of the detected corners is assumed to be gaussian, and
I<independent> in the horizontal and vertical directions. If the C<x> and C<y>
distributions are each C<s>, then the /length/ of the deviation of each pixel is
a Rayleigh distribution with expected value C<s*sqrt(pi/2)> ~ C<s*1.25>

B<This tool performs no outlier rejection, and it is assumed that the scene is
stationary>

=head1 ARGUMENTS

The general usage is

 mrgingham-observe-pixel-uncertainty
     [--show-geometry] [--show-radii] [--mrgingham MRGINGHAM_PARAMETERS]
     images_glob | corners.vnl

Either images or corner coordinates I<must> be passed in. Images are passed as a
I<glob>. So in the shell pass in C<'*.png'> and I<not> C<*.png>. The arguments
are

=over

=item images_glob

If the main commandline argument is I<not> C<something.vnl> I assume we're given
images. These are processed by C<mrgingham-from-image> and the arguments given
in C<--mrgingham>.

=item C<corners.vnl>

If the main commandline argument I<is> C<something.vnl> I assume we're given
corner coordinates. This is a 3-column vnlog C<mrgingham-from-image> returns:
C<filename>,C<x>,C<y>.

=item C<--show-geometry>

Optional argument to visualize the 1-stdev ellipses of the distribution. The
plot shows the chessboard corners, and the ellipses for each one.

=item C<--show-radii>

Optional argument to visualize the distribution of the 1-stdev radii. The radii
for each chessboard corner are plotted together, so their consistency can be
evaluated.

=back

=head1 REPOSITORY

L<https://github.com/dkogan/mrgingham>

=head1 AUTHOR

Dima Kogan, C<< <dima@secretsauce.net> >>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

Copyright 2017-2018 California Institute of Technology

Copyright 2017-2018 Dima Kogan (C<dima@secretsauce.net>)

=cut


